You can now use AI to seamlessly replace
any character in your video. Not only
that, but you can also maintain the
original speech and sync the lip
movement or use your own video to drive
the animation of another character and
even restyle the entire video into any
look you want. And in this tutorial, I'm
going to show you how to do all of that
for free using one 2.2 animate inside
Comfy UI.
I've already created a video about one
2.2 animate where I also highlighted
some quality issues and limitations that
many of you also noticed. Today, we will
use a different workflow to optimize the
output. I ran several tests and found
that one 2.2 animate is very good with
physics. It's also good at maintaining
character consistency even when subjects
spin around. I've successfully replaced
characters who were holding or
interacting with objects in the scene,
which shows how powerful the subject
detection really is in this workflow. To
get started, you need to install Comfy
UI on your computer. You can download it
from comfy.org. Simply choose an option
based on your system, open the
downloaded file, and follow the
installation steps. The process is very
easy and straightforward. It's important
to note that Comfy UI works best on
Windows with an Nvidia GPU and running
one 2.2 Animate requires at least 24 GB
of GPU VRAM. The more VRAM you have, the
faster your generations will process.
However, if you don't have the required
hardware, don't worry. You can simply
run Comfy online and get access to
higherend GPUs with various VRAM
options. I will leave links to my
favorite websites where you can run
Comfy UI in the description box. Once
Confiu is installed, it will launch
automatically. Next, you need to
download the necessary one 2.2 Animate
models. I've included a detailed guide
below with all the links and exact
folders where you should save these
models. Also, in the description box,
you can download the one 2.2 Animate
workflow. Simply drag and drop the file
into Comfy UI to load it. Once you do
that, you will get a window telling you
that the workflow requires nodes not
installed on your computer. To fix this,
go to manager and click on install
missing custom nodes. Install all the
nodes in this list one by one. After
that, you will need to restart Confui.
And now you can start using the one 2.2
animate workflow. It might look a bit
overwhelming at first, but don't worry.
I'll guide you through the process and
settings step by step. And by the way, I
want to give a shout out to Kiji, one of
the most respected individuals in the
Comfy UI community. He created this
workflow, but I've modified it slightly
to make it easier to get started and
ended up with this version right here.
Okay, let's get started. Click here to
upload a video of the character or
person that you want to replace. I
recommend using a video no larger than
1080p resolution. Both vertical and
landscape formats work well. Here you
can choose how many frames of your video
you want to run through the workflow.
And usually not being able to generate
long videos is a common limitations of
open-source video models. But with this,
I managed to run 300 and 400 frames with
no issues. But it will probably depend
on the video. If you have more VRAM than
me or use Comfy UI on the cloud, you can
probably process even longer videos. I'm
going to input 125 frames, which is
around 5 seconds long. Here you can
choose the dimensions of your output
video. Keep in mind that higher
resolution requires more time and
resources. I want to match the original
aspect ratio of my video, which is 9x6.
So, I'm setting the dimensions to 576x
1024. This is high enough for decent
quality, but low enough for my machine
to handle. And I will show you later how
you can quickly increase this resolution
after generating. Just below you can
click here to upload a picture of the
character you want to replace the
original with. You actually have two
options here. You can either upload a
completely new character that's totally
different from your original. Just make
sure you choose an image where the
character is clearly visible and not too
far from the camera. It also works fine
if the new character's body is not fully
visible in the frame. Your second option
is to upload a stylized version of the
same character. This way you can
transform your video into any visual
style such as anime, claimation, 3D
animation, and more. To do this, first
export one frame from your original
video. Ideally, when your character is
most visible, then you need to turn that
single image into any style you want.
And I'm going to do that using
artlist.io.
Go to AI image and video. Switch to
image to image and upload that frame. In
the prompt box, just describe the style.
For example, you can say turn this into
anime style. Then pick a model. You've
got options like Cadream, Nano Banana,
or Flux. I will go with Cadream for this
one. Hit generate. And in just a few
seconds, you will get your stylized
image. Now, Art List is the sponsor of
today's video, and it's way more than
just a place for stylizing images using
AI. You can generate videos directly on
the site using some of the best AI video
models out there, including Google's Veo
3 and even Sora, too. It's a one-stop
shop where you can also create
voiceovers and dialogues in multiple
languages, change existing voices, and
of course, access art lists, legendary
music library, sound effects, cinematic
stock footage, and even motion graphic
templates. Basically, everything you
need to bring your ideas to life. So, if
you want the best of both creative
assets and AI creation tools in one
place, Art List is a no-brainer. Use the
link in the description box to get two
extra months for free when subscribing
to artlist.io. Now back to Comfy UI.
Down below you can find the one video
torch compile settings node. It's
currently bypassed as you can see. If
you unbypass this and change the
attention mode to Sage Attention, it
will supposedly speed up the generation.
However, you will need to have both
Torch and Sage installed on your
computer. This hasn't worked very well
for me, but I will leave an installation
guide in the description in case you
want to try it out. Next, move over here
and find the grow mask with blur node,
specifically the expand value. This
setting is crucial. It's set to 10 by
default, which means the mask will only
be 10 pixels larger than the selected
subject. This works fine for characters
that are the same size as your original
one, but if your new character is
larger, you might need to increase this
value to allow more space for the new
character. I'm setting mine to 25. Now,
let's move to the character replacement
group of nodes. By default, the
generated video will use the same
background from your original video and
simply replace the character with a new
one. However, if you want to take the
movement from your video and apply it to
the reference picture and drive the
motion of the new character, which means
the background from the reference image
will be retained in your output video.
Simply disconnect the background image
and mask nodes from the one video
animate embeds node. I'll keep the
default connections for now because I
want to use this as a character
replacement workflow. Let's move over to
the prompt box here. All you need to do
is input a simple description of what's
happening in the video in a short
sentence. For example, I wrote female
clown talking. That's it. By default,
one 2.2 animate generates videos at 16
frames per second, but you can match the
original frame rate of your video in
both video combined nodes. Once you're
done with the settings, click here to
run the workflow and start generating.
And by the way, if you want to try other
creative workflows, make sure you
subscribe to the channel so you don't
miss out on future videos. I also invite
you to check out my Patreon where you
can unlock exclusive workflows, project
files, and advanced tutorials. After
processing, you will be able to preview
your final video with the swapped
character in this node. And look at
that. The replacement looks very clean.
While there are some imperfections and
weird glitches around the edges, the
replacement looks almost seamless. And
remember, this technology is only going
to get better. The lip syncing is
impressive. The body movement is pretty
much identical to the original video.
Also, the color and light matching looks
really good. Keep in mind that results
will vary depending on your choice of
video and character. So, this is where
experimenting with inputs and settings
comes in. I highly encourage you to try
out different combinations because
experimenting is truly the best way to
learn. If you feel the generated video
could look better and the quality isn't
up to your standards, you can use
upscaling software to enhance it.
Personally, my go-to option is top as
video. To find your generated video, go
to your Comfy folder, open the output
folder, and you will find all your
generated videos there. All you need to
do is drag and drop your video here and
click start editing. I usually enable
enhancement and upscale the video by two
or four times the original size. Each AI
model inside topaz video offers
different results. For AI generated
videos, I typically use the rhea model.
You can also enable frame interpolation.
This is useful if your video was
generated at a low frame rate like 16
fps for example. Topaz video will fill
in the missing frames to create smoother
motion. Once you're happy with the
settings, just click quick export and
you're good to go. On my machine, the
upscaling usually takes about a minute.
And as you can see, the details on the
upscaled video are way sharper. And the
overall image just looks cleaner, but it
doesn't feel oversharpened or weird,
which is why I love using Topas Video.
If you have any questions or requests,
please drop them in the comments below.
Stay creative, and I'll see you in the
next video. Peace.
[Music]